

API Gateway is a kind of service provided by cloud platforms, that provides a central entry point for external clients to access an organization's web services or microservices.

An API Gateway is basically a layer that sits between clients and services. Its main goal is to facilitate the management and routing of request/response calls between the client and services. By providing a single point of entry or communication between a client and the back-end services, an API Gateway plays a significant role in improving security, performance, and compliance.

An example of an API Gateway can be illustrated by large organizations that use API gateways to manage and control web services communication. For example, consider a company TX, which provides several web services to its customers. Their services include e-commerce, search, product reviews, and transaction services. To manage the incoming request/response calls from customers to each of these services and ensure security maintenance, the company set up an API Gateway as an intermediary layer between the clients and its services.

The API gateway handles all requests that come in from the client, then depicts and routes the requests to the appropriate microservices. As a result, the developer does not have to plan or maintain those services independently over different cloud applications, and the clients can access all the critical services by means of a single interface through the API Gateway. This also enables the organization to implement factors like authentication, caching, traffic throttling, and rate limiting on a centralized network, instead of doing it for each backend service separately.